the realest thing you can do is have a
drumbeat with nothing but a drum P Joe
best can't rap pal simian can't rap what
is the deal with white male vegans
coming on the tube pretending they can
rap nobody else is pretending with you
man you're pretending all by your
lonesome um look man uh this issues been
raised in number of different ways last
two three years of my life
the idea that promoting beauty is
promoting veganism and you know it's a
broken-down concept at a bunch of
different ways first and foremost I
noticed that these same people who want
to defend lifestyle veganism who want to
defend the portrayal of yoga vegans as
beautiful and veganism as a way to
become beautiful whether that's as a
diet lifestyle or what-have-you
um at the same time they're not letting
go of the pretensions of being activists
they're not letting go of the
save-the-world vocabulary they're not
letting go of the notion that what
they're doing is radical a challenge to
Authority that it's changing society
changing cultural values etc and you
can't have it both ways
you really can't I think it's cool if
you just say hey this is a lifestyle I'm
showing off how I stay in shape what I
eat in a day etc it's cool but it's not
activism and the other hand activism is
not pretty
alright all the questions we get into
like check the videos on this channel
talking about direct action everywhere
questioning whether or not those
protests are effective and what would be
the most effective mode of activism um
effective activism is not pretty and by
that I don't mean a street riot not
necessarily I can't think of in
situations where a street riot is the
the best mode of activism vailable to
you but it can mean sitting around at
City Hall
it can mean paperwork and legal
challenges it can mean a whole lot of
you know principled meaningful political
action that will never be on the cover
of Vogue magazine and of course the
fantasy that a lot of vegans are playing
out on their websites and on their
YouTube channels is exactly I've wanted
to take a photograph themselves and
pretend they're on the cover of Vogue
magazine I think also there's a kind of
self-selected blindness an intentional
ignorance about the reality of beauty
itself I don't know if these people have
really had the experience of sitting and
spending time with someone who is so
ugly that you feel uncomfortable looking
at them directly normally when you know
a particular person like that whether
it's due to disease that has scarred
them in some way that's made their face
misshapen or whether it's due to birth
they were just they were just born ugly
or they were born with a disability or
disfigurement that makes them ugly
that's part of life that you never see
on TV you know even even like comedy
shows where the actors aren't selected
for being beautiful there is definitely
a minimum standard of attractiveness
even for the funny fat guy on a TV show
even for the ugly girl and it's like a
running gag in Hollywood the ugly girl
is always a gorgeous actress but they
give her a pair of thick glasses and
less appealing makeup you know less
appealing hair can fake him that's the
ugly girl you know you know real
ugliness exists in this world I remember
meeting a guy in England who was just
born with with a horribly deformed nose
in the middle of his face and you know
he had to live with that for his whole
life and he was used to it like with the
first time you looked at him maybe if
you knew him you maybe just like if you
were a co-worker of his for a few weeks
you'd get used to it but when you first
look at him you'd kind of flinch the man
he would he was used to that he was used
to going to buy his groceries and having
people were
respond really negatively one of the
reasons I remember that was at that time
when I was in England there was an
ongoing debate ultimately involving
parliament in the government about
whether or not the the government should
support plastic surgery like the
government should pay for plastic
surgery in some cases and what would be
the line like at what point do you
actually have a deformity or disability
that justifies the government paying for
non necessary surgery that will make you
more attractive or at least more
normal-looking
and obviously that guy his whole life
would have been different if you had
been just kind of moderately
unattractive instead of being frankly
hideous in a way that people respond
negatively this is part of real life on
earth man
and again it's edited out of the highly
artificial reality you know currently
shows you Thailand without showing that
it's a military dictatorship that shows
people sitting in their bikinis in a
restaurant eating dinner and pretends
their legs aren't being bitten by
mosquitoes as highly sanitized
glamorized view of the the permanent
vacation and they're literally editing
out the ugly people God knows I mean
there are a lot of war cripples a lot of
people crippled by war in in Thailand
also but in in Laos and Cambodia next
door one of the events of my life that
really changed my own thinking about
beauty and ugliness and how we all live
together in society was meeting a man on
the Cambodian border he was a border
guard he was in the military in some
capacity and he had a bullet wound in
the middle of his face the middle of his
face was caved in with what I assume was
a machine-gun round not a pistol round
and he had not had reconstructive
surgery he had just survived he was what
you look like when your face has been
caved in by a bullet and your immune
system just recovered like period no
reconstructive surgery whatsoever and he
was you know especially first he was
hard to look at it was hard to look him
in the eye I did it and I talked to him
in the Cambodian language I was in quite
a difficult situation on that border
there was no bus there was no transport
there was no way for me to get from that
border into Cambodia proper and he
couldn't just walk through the forest or
anything there's still Mayans he could
be blown up by - am i sorry one story
leads to another I don't think in terms
of the intellectual leaders the
influential leaders in a veganism I
don't think anyone picked Gary France he
owned a because he was good-looking I'm
not saying I'm not a huge fan of Kerry
France he owned a you can see my own
videos I have some criticisms at work
but he's been a major voice you know the
woman who founded peda a Petta
so that god is such a huge topic but i
mean look if if you believe that
promoting physical beauty is an
effective method of promoting animal
rights
well peda took it to the logical extreme
they made softcore pornography for
decades featuring beautiful women 90
percent naked or what-have-you and they
were claiming that was effective
activism well if it was I could
understand why you now want to imitate
it but I think the vast majority of
vegans not even feminist vegans just
mainstream middle their own vegans they
look back in the history of peda and
they say well you know mmm they did some
things that worked but you know mmm it's
kind of regrettable this whole
experiment with naked women and it kind
of it kind of gave peda a bad name it
gave animal rights a bad name it doesn't
make vegan doesn't look good and it
didn't have any outcomes
there was nothing possible the positive
show for it terms of outcome evaluation
and interestingly that Gary Francey only
himself he claims that was the reason
why he quit
pedda that he quit that organization
because of what he felt was the
demeaning and counterproductive use of
sexualized images of women interesting
because there were a lot of reasons to
quit but that's just one of them that I
could think of but look you know the
idea that if you get some vegans on the
cover of Vogue magazine or appearing in
highly beautiful artificial articulated
poses
models as supermodels dispute the idea
that that will convince or compel people
to become vegan or to care about animal
rights or care about ecology or what
have you that's deeply flawed simply by
sorry I should say the deep flaw in that
thinking is revealed simply by looking
at the other magazines on the shelf
every store shelf every supermarket is
full of magazines that are depicting
human beauty especially the beauty of
women with plenty of them are showing
beautiful men to men's health and
fitness magazines as well as fashion and
pornography and everything else what
percentage of these images of beauty are
vegan or vegetarian or ecological
ethical in any way obviously enormous
number of people are influenced by for
example the images of beauty in the
x-men movies and I think superheroes are
a important example because people tend
to be influenced by superheroes when
they're still children there are young
boys whose view of the world really is
shaped by Arnold Schwarzenegger movies
action movies comic book heroes like
Batman Superman the x-men and the actors
who portray them as well as the the
images the pictures and the toys and the
type of physique the way those depict
man the way those to pick women what do
you think like how would a couple of
scrawny teenagers and bikinis compete
with that or why would that have the
kind of efficacy you're claiming for it
I think it wouldn't you know I can
understand up to a certain point like I
understand if the point is
self-promotion if the point is just
enjoying the lifestyle if the point is
even to get a small business rolling you
know like you want to run out or resort
you know when you want to promote that
resort sure I I completely understand
that I have never in my videos said that
you know lifestyle veganism is you know
totally counterproductive but it is
counterproductive even relative to the
objectives that petaa you
that when they were pursuing in I don't
think they've stopped I just say I'm
just talking sort of past tense over
decades of them trying to use that
tactic with a huge budget with
advertising and mainstream newspapers
with all kinds of advantages that the
average vegan on Instagram and YouTube
the average vegan trying to get some
certain leader that they don't have um
this shows kind of the banality of
beauty but look the other reality is
these are all hollow promises being
vegan does not make you more beautiful
it really doesn't and I think this is
also being edited out of our kind of
digital vegan pseudo reality here to
some extent if you go to a conference
that's attended by serious animal rights
activists or even a conference where
it's everyone's vegan they're not better
looking than people at other conferences
I've been to linguistics conferences
academic conferences a study of Asia
study of history study of Buddhism there
was a philosophy conference eight of the
week they all have some good-looking
people at them you know whatever I mean
not everybody at the linguistics
conference is ugly not everybody is fat
whatever actually most people in
linguistics are pretty skinny I don't
know why maybe there's a psychological
reason for that nobody's selling the
linguistics PhD diet but yeah a lot of
lot of scrawny guys in linguistics for
some reason um it's just not true that
if you go to an animal rights conference
everyone is gorgeous it doesn't even
look anything like going to a
bodybuilding conference if you do go to
a bodybuilding conference two of the
guys there are gonna be vegan but I was
in the vast majority those people are
eating meat the vast majority of images
on the store shelf and fashion magazines
are people who eat meat the vast
majority of images of athletes yes there
are a couple guys a couple of women who
are vegan but the vast majority of these
people have a word physical beauty and
our eating meat so there is no way
you're going to convince the general
public and freely like claims this that
the only way for you to be healthy and
lean and beautiful is a vegan diet or is
a particular vegan diet a high carb
vegan diet or what have you
you are absolutely setting yourself up
for failure because those are promises
you can't deliver on I'm going to give
two more real
examples from here where I'm living in
Canada I live on the west coast of
Canada there were a lot of beautiful
people here um you know compared to the
rest of Canada just the climate is more
mild people care about their health and
exercise generally the level of physical
health and vitality and beauty is high
and you know ain't none of these people
vegan an incredibly small percentage of
people here are vegan if I walk through
the cafeteria at my University
I'm a tall guy I'm like 6 foot 3 so I
just look down as I'm walking to the
cafeteria which I often do I'm gonna
walk through that cafeteria of a couple
of days I can see who's eating
hamburgers and who's eating veggie
burgers you can see the vast majority of
people are eating meat these are all
good-looking people eating meat on a
daily basis there's absolutely no sense
you don't look around that room and see
wow all these people are fat and ugly
and unhealthy and you know the only the
couple of good-looking people are the
good are the people eating salad or he
thinking meals it's just not true
living here in Victoria I'm surrounded
by outwardly gorgeous people who eat me
if you live in Los Angeles or California
or something I'm sure that's true also
you have to admit yourself vegans have
no advantage in terms of outward beauty
and we can get into a long list of
reasons for why that is outward beauty
it's partly in the eye of the beholder
and it's partly based on some objective
measurements of good health and
completely arbitrary factors that are
fixed for you basically from the day
you're born part of it is the the luck
of the draw the genetic lottery when
you're born there was a vegan event here
at my university let's assume and only
young women attended I don't think there
was a single guy a single male student
attended this event I did not attend and
people who are at the event posted it
posted photos of the of the event on
Facebook that I saw now I'm not hating
on anyone but the young women who
attended that event they're the same age
as other university students they're not
better looking than the young women
in the Linguistics club or the history
club or you know a random selection of
meat-eaters on campus they're just not
there is just no truth to the notion
that when you meet vegans you're gonna
meet people with glowing skin who are
outstandingly beautiful or even who are
slimmer than the other people right here
where I live it's really not true yeah
it's some other parts of Canada you
might you know chronic obesity might be
much more of a problem than it is here
on the west coast but still I think
there are plenty of fat vegans out there
check out the homie Joe best for example
of a fat vegan and a guy who doesn't
even have the redeeming qualities of of
being morally principled about his
veganism but that's another story um so
look I mean if you're selling false
goods if you're making promises you
can't back up it's not gonna be the
basis for a political movement a social
movement or even really a viable
marketing campaign um it's just one more
example this I mean you know outward
beauty is not inner health
I have zero dietary cholesterol okay
invisibly I really am healthier than
other guys my age you eat meat who maybe
much better-looking than me who may be
more athletic or just have a more
handsome face for whatever reason um I
was better looking back when I eat meat
that's the reality
I was slimmer I was more muscular and I
was younger and I was handsomer you know
if you do a before and after photo with
me I don't look better after getting
vegan but this business of making
promises you can't really back up for me
also this fad of selling bicycles as a
route to personal beauty it also doesn't
make sense there all kinds of good
reasons to ride a bicycle it's a mode of
transport that works just great as long
as it's not raining heavy rain alone
makes riding a bicycle pretty much
impossible especially if you've got a
job you're going to or something but
anyway um with that aside you know I saw
a video from a vegan guy up here a
series of videos that kind of moved me
emotionally because he went on a long
distance
by trip through some of the same places
I used to live in work in northern Laos
he went from northern Thailand through
northern Laos and all Vietnam and he
added up to thousands of kilometres
thousands and he was doing it as a vegan
and he was talking about it and again I
was watching it kind of it of political
interest and it reminded me of this time
my life when I lived and worked there
and you know I have an attachment kind
of the suffering of the people in that
little area of Asia I know a lot about
their history and anyway there are
different reasons why I was watching it
but then at one point during the video
he shows himself with his shirt off and
I'm not hating on the guy but he doesn't
look handsome he doesn't look muscular
he looks pudgy and out of shape despite
the fact that he has just done an
amazing series of climbs on a bicycle
over an amazing distance through the
mountains eating just rice and fruit and
he commented in a joking way said oh
well as you can see you know long
distance biking makes you look ripped he
was joking but he's aware his physique
does not look impressive even after
extreme endurance sport so you know it
just seems to me like a self-defeating
approach in so many ways and what makes
it work some is that the people selling
it selling the beauty package are
they're not just making the same claims
that cynical fashion magazines and other
you know fad marketing agencies would
make they're making the further claims
of save the world they're claiming the
outcomes of real activism when the input
when the actual activity is just
self-indulgence and the fatuous
celebration of a kind of beauty that's
already celebrated in so many mainstream
outlets in our society whether it's
under the heading of athletics you know
movies acting entertainment or
what-have-you
that's a really crowded shelf in the
shop and I don't think veganism is going
to win by competing for one inch on that
shelf